# Minimax trees generated on-the-way to gold solutions

**IMPORTANT NOTE**: cloning/downloading this repo will NOT actually download the data - I messed up and set some stuff up wrong. You can find the actual data files at [this link](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1NJDvHtRZEuEA61rwU4RINAZekTNYDc-s), as a .zip download from Google Drive.

## What should I do with these logs?
Use them alongside your own debugging, and try and identify when your program makes a decision that doesn't line up with the tree. If you're using a debugger, step through each call to `getMinimaxMove` and `getAlphaBeta` and make sure that the values you're returning and the board states you're considering all line up - if they don't, you've found a bug! If you're not using a debugger, put tons of print statements into your program, and see where your print statements indicate that your program is doing something that doesn't line up with the tree.

You can download this repository (all the files here) either via `git` (if you're comfortable with it), or by clicking the green "Clone or Download" button and downloading a .zip - either way works just fine.

**SUBTLE WARNING**: there are a ton of data files (and they get big), so this is a ~2.2GB download - just be aware!

As a note: these trees are completely implementation-independent. They aren't attached to the code that was used to generate them - they're exactly what you'd get if you drew out the Minimax tree for each board by hand. Just in a better format, and with less grunt work.

## Where are these files, and what do the names mean?
The files in `data/` represent the minimax trees generated by the solution code, each time that `getMinimaxMove` or `getAlphabetaMove` are called.

Files are named as follows: `<gamenumber>.<move returned by call>.<txt or json>`.
- Game number: [0-3], representing the test number. [0-1] are Minimax, and [2-3] are Alphabeta.
- Move returned: `getMinimaxMove` and `getAlphabetaMove` are called multiple times per game, and each time return one move. This part of the filename represents what that final move will be - you can use this to figure out which call the file corresponds to.
- .txt or .json: .txt files are pretty-printed dumps of a Python dictionary (containing data as described below), and .json files are the same data in JSON format.

For example, consider the filename `game0.((0, 3), (0, 1)).json`. It represents the tree from a call:
- From `game0`, or the first test (with gold values in the variable `ans1` - sorry for the off-by-one). Consequently, you know it was a call to `getMinimaxMove`.
- From the call that produced the move `((0, 3), (0, 1))`. Consequently, by looking at the `ans1` variable, we know this was the first call to `getMinimaxMove` (because the move ((0, 3), (0, 1)) is the first move in `ans1`).
- In JSON format.

## Viewing log data
Any of the log files can be viewed in any text editor - be forewarned that some of them are very large, and might be slow to load in some editors. However, they're bulky and hard to parse.

### Viewing log data as an interactive HTML tree
`index.html` lets you open and view any of the .json files as a collapsible, interactive tree in a browser. Open `index.html` in any browser (tested in Firefox, should work in Safari and Chrome). Use the buttons to select the log file you want to examine.

## Interpreting log data/minimax trees
Each Minimax tree is stored as a series of **nodes**, each of which contains some data about the minimax computation at that moment. Specifically, a node contains:
- Player: the player making a decision at that node ("x" or "o")
- Depth: the depth down the tree of this node
- Board: a string representation of the state of the board at that node
- Children: an array of (**move**, **node**) pairs representing children of this node - i.e. if we made move **move** we would arrive at node **node**
- returnScoreAndMove: the best move that can be made from this node and the score of that move, i.e. the move that takes us to our child node with the highest returned score. This represents the (score, bestMove) pair that the minimax pseudocode algorithm returns.

## Issues and questions
If you have questions about how to use these, or if something isn't working, feel free to open a Github issue here (requires a Github account) or to post on Piazza.
